Hello again you delightful go to people in this video we're going to add furniture why we're doing this
with a couple of reasons first it's going to make the level more interesting to look at less blank space
more variety if you have the same pattern repeated again and again blank room blank room Blank Rome
it's very hard for the player to concentrate but there's also something else going on the level going
to feel more believable it's going to have more of an illusion and most importantly there's the gameplay
reason we want to give the play The Player places to hide we'll break NPC line of sight lots of little
things to hide behind potted plants desks whatever they might be.
Okay so with all that said let's get into it now.
Our first thing we could do we could go into this Tom up here and we could add some more tiles right.
It's beautiful floors in the walls or here all looking lovely and we could just open the tile set itself
and let's make a brand new one so I can click here.
It's just click this button to make this full screen.
Let's add in a new single tile.
And you know what I'm going to give it a region.
Let's just pick this entire thing that's a that's a brand new tile.
OK.
You are now.
This sofa is now new tile.
Click this little button again to minimize it.
There it goes.
And when I get into the tile set I've got this new chair.
So you might be thinking well it's great you just place this chair and you can.
But look what happens to the floor.
Why is this happening.
Remember what a tile map is a time up is a single node that takes up a whole bunch of space and it splits
itself into grids.
And then each grid reference it changes what's visible.
If I put a chair here I am replacing the information that was underneath it.
So I'm not putting a chair on top of the floor I'm removing the floor and putting a chair there and
that's all we want.
The way around this is going to be to create a new tile map.
First let's get rid of this ugly little chair thing it's made suddenly go back into my old tiles dot
tiaras and let's make this full screen again like cleaning expand.
Bottom Panel and make sure I'm in the right region and just delete I don't want that and minimize that
little panel.
And now when we click on the tile map it should be gone.
OK.
Now every level is going to want furniture.
So let's go and change the template.
Look let's get back into template level and I will put the new Tom up right and navigation to.
I don't want to rename this if I rename this it will lose all the information I would have to draw it
all over again.
And that sounds lame.
So brand new node.
And this is a new tile map.
I don't call it Tom up to I want to call this furniture.
So far so good.
Now this bit is going to be a little bit time consuming a little fiddly but it is worth it once we've
got this in place.
It's going to make everything a lot easier.
So we've got this new task.
Let's make a new tile set and click on it.
I'm not going to load the tiles set because the tiles that wants to be different and what I need here
is the actual sprite we can be using.
So let's add that in so adding a texture and going to graphics and add a tile sheet and I'm going to
choose the tile sheet complete.
There goes.
OK.
So we now have a new top sheet and I want to just fill up the entire screen with us again.
The zoom out a little bit.
Now all the stuff I want is over here on the right.
But I don't necessarily need all of this and I would encourage you to use as much or as little as this
is possible.
What I do know I want is some office chairs.
I want some sofas.
I want some desks.
We could maybe put some kitchen stuff in.
FESSLER do is start with a nice simple one.
So let's get started.
I'm going to make a brand new single tile.
So instead of using altar telling me a single tile and what do we not these glass desks I'm going to
put my snap back on and zoom right in.
Here we go.
Great.
Now you'll notice this just doesn't go all the way to the edge like probably live with that.
Some called this one and I've got my snap options I could change a step here.
But right now 64 by 64 is good.
I think that's my very first desk.
Now I also want these three.
So what we do is we can use single tile and click that one new single tile click that one single talk
click that well so far so good just defined some regions.
However each one of these also has collision.
So I'm just going to use my polygon to and click all four corners and the beginning.
Now assuming that I'm comfortable with the entire thing being the collision that's nice and easy right.
So I can do this with this one.
And you know this one let's just create a new Rectangle we're from their new Rectangle their new Rectangle
there.
So I can click on each of these and I could see the collision zooms in play.
OK.
So far so good.
What happens if I want for example these chairs these chairs are not perfectly the right size.
So let's zoom in here and get a nice and close.
There we go.
So I'm going to zoom enemies in the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
And I'm holding the mouse button down to pan the camera.
OK.
First let's change these steps.
What is 16 by 16 look like not good enough.
How about eight by eight.
I'm trying to do is line up as much of the chair as possible.
Even that doesn't look right does it have four by four four by four does look pretty good.
But it's going to be a little bit fiddly but that's just what it is.
So fascinating to do defined the region.
So let's define this region
and to do that I'm assuming a back to 64 by 64 just to define the region.
So let's define this region.
That's my region.
OK.
So analysis and collision right now this whole thing is the collision.
Don't want that.
Delete the collision.
Let's change our step back to eight by eight.
That looks good and we'll just use the polygon to draw as close to the chair as we can.
Not going to be perfect but it'll be pretty solid.
So that's and then back to the beginning and there's our collision shape.
OK.
Now he decides does this need to change the actual occlusion to not change the light beams and there
they're two arguments for this.
Let's get back into the regions so I can see it.
The first is yes we want to change the occlusion.
We want the flashlights the torches to cast shadows because then the player can see what is blocking
line of sight.
The other argument is no we don't because we want the player to be able to see the chair clearly it's
going to look weird.
I'm inclined to go with yes we do.
We want to actually block the line of sight because that gives the player valuable information.
So what we'll do is I'm sure a trace as close to the chair as I can.
Now you might decide you don't want the entire chair.
Maybe it's just the back of the chair.
That's fine.
But remember the collision shape is what's actually going to find it.
So let's draw around here.
Give the player as much information as they can about their I guess that's kind of fiddly and close
that there's a occlusion OK before any further.
Let's test that and well.
So we go back into our main level now let's just minimize this window back until May level and let's
click on furniture and we should now have a chair on a desk let's place the chair the desk to do know
here with a little waiting room and we have a desk and a middle desk and we should have an outer desk.
We have as you put the outer asking yet have we.
Well that's OK.
What we can do is we can rotate this one.
Two things we could do.
We could use these to flip buttons.
I could do horizontal flip and I look good.
But maybe you're using some left shell.
You don't want to flip on the horizontal.
You want to touch you rotate which case you could use these two rotation things.
I want to rotate this right twice and that works the same way.
So this way I don't have to create the left hand side of the table.
You notice this table has no inclusion to be consistent we should probably put that in.
So let's get back into our furniture and let's edit this whole map and very quickly click on this link.
Speaking in and I should change my step shouldn't I.
So let's go to the left.
Make sure I've got the right being changed and changed this to 64 by 64 and zoom right out.
And now I'm going to use these left arrows until I find the correct type thing.
That's a correct table thing occlusion and a full square for this and next one gets the full square
and this one gets the full square.
I think that's all done because I forgot to do this.
Everyone just double check.
Let's go back in to the level say that I was at work show.
Take a look.
And now it's blocking it.
Okay so let's see that game
and make that nice and big.
Just run around the edges of the camera and we now have this nice chat at the check up here.
The table is there and the light beams are being blocked so I can wait for God to come down here.
You got no you shouldn't hit the wall.
That's fine.
You can just about see it being blocked there.
Now what's interesting is he can see me through the wall.
He should never do that.
So there's clearly some bug in that code will fix that wall but that is a good start.
However just this table and chair won't work.
First off I want to move that shares in the wrong place.
Right click on you to get rid of you and left click to pitch up here.
That's looking a bit better.
And now I'm gonna go back into my furniture tile set and I want to see someone want to put it.
So at this stage this is my challenge for you.
I would like you to make your awesome level even better.
And don't be afraid to tweak the existing level you already have.
First thing I will do decide which bits of furniture to look at.
If the back onto the screen we've got lots and lots.
Don't pick everything there's no need to.
Maybe you don't need trees in your level.
Maybe you do maybe huge what some kitchen habits maybe you want some more what a carpet.
Some TV.
I would leave monitors and TV alone we will be using those for gameplay.
Maybe on some surface pick a handful.
See how you feel and then go from there.
So post the video give it a go.
And when you come back I'll show you what I've got.
And welcome back.
OK.
So what have I done.
I've added a few things.
First thing I did is this little fish tank here.
I noticed this fish tank.
Let's go over it is a double region.
And I've also just spotted that I haven't put the collision on this properly.
That collision is in complete the wrong place.
So let's get rid of this collision.
I'll show you what that was going to be in a moment.
And the inclusion be wrong too.
What was that was specially this plant here.
So let's take a look at this.
I quickly put a collision in.
This collision can be this zoom down to eight by eight.
Yeah that looks good.
And we're just going to undo that and draw in my polygon stoop doop doop doop one fish tank and inclusion
as well.
I'm going to draw that in one two three four close.
I was also put this plant in which has vanished.
So let's do that real quick.
Sixty four by 64.
New single tile.
There it is.
Let's make this nice and small so it's a four by four step and zoom in as much as we can.
And very quickly show you how to do this one.
So collision.
OK.
So this doesn't have to be pixel perfect but I was as close as I can.
So let's just run around here and get that as close as feasibly possible.
So it makes sense for the player.
That one's a little off.
So let's just go this way.
No player can get through there anyway.
Great.
And that's me the occlusion which will have to be a little bit more sensible.
You know what let's go even fine.
Let's get a two by two.
That's annoying isn't it.
And we're going to make a little polygons I just trace around the outside and I could just do the leaves
if I wanted to.
But I've made the decision that furniture should look like this.
It's kind of hard to look at this.
Zoom in a bit.
There we go.
And just trace the outside.
That was Miss
and there's a occlusion.
OK so let's make this a little easier to look at and zoom out as you have got so we got that fish tank.
We've got that potted plant.
Select the regions.
We've got the another selection of sofas and I think that's going to look good.
So let's get back into our level and start making it save everything we've got so far minimize that.
And Max the level.
OK.
So this chair needs to be placed I've got a potted plant.
Put a potted plant in the corner.
She has not put a potted plant put a potted plant here but I think a potted plant there is good maybe
one here is nice and I'm going to make some nice waiting room stuff.
How about a waiting room here.
Let's rotate you nice long sofa can go right there and I'm going to flip this horizontally and put that
there.
And now we can put a coffee table.
So how about a nice little coffee table right here horizontal flip again.
OK.
So that was looking good.
So that gives some stuff to hide around now.
At the moment it's still looking very sparse.
So let's put some more stuff in here about a potted plant there in that corner.
Want to hear yes something that looks good.
Actually not that right here.
And let's put it some more offices.
This looks like it wants to be an office isn't it.
Let's make you an office.
So you are now an office and yes I'll be a very annoying security camera behind you horizontal flip
little chair.
And there we go.
That chair looks like it didn't have good occlusion we can fix in a bit but you can quickly see we're
putting a little together.
Mind if I put something there.
No one can walk through so maybe I won't put a plant here but there might be interesting Betty right
here at the play hide on the door.
And what else we got with this nice fish tank that fish tank you go somewhere I think that fish tank
can go right.
He
has a really tight spot isn't it.
Yeah that looks good.
In fact you know what.
We can make this even easier.
Let's get rid of this bit of wool and then move that fish tank and put the fish tank right there.
Those are the wrong floors.
So let's put the correct floor how we got some good and that's a good start.
Now we can also put some stuff down here
so let's put it.
You don't want to make multiple desks in here let's flip here.
Go.
And I'm going to put two sets of chairs.
How about one right here one right here.
You know a little bit of greenery make this office a little nicer.
One here one here one here and that's pretty solid.
Let's see how it plays.
All right.
So run round my fellowship I didn't do anything in this room.
We could do that a little bit but so far so good.
And I've got myself a little bit stuck.
I realize right now there's no penalty but I'm going to run around as quick as I can.
Is actually surprisingly difficult.
That's nice.
That's nice and easy.
Let's see how this chair works like fishy.
OK.
Right now this chair isn't blocking occlusion and that's no good at all.
So let's just fix that real quick.
So back into my tile set and let's click on the chair and zoom in.
You should write this.
It's a little easier myself.
There it is.
OK.
Tell me about your occlusion.
You don't have any.
How about collision you have collision and I have occlusion and that.
Let's put that in real quick.
So it's got eight by eight and big bop noticed before I fall isn't it.
Beep
here I think
and see if was can follow the light gray around as best I can here.
I see leaning closer to the computer for some reason.
OK.
And now you have occlusion and you should have occlusion too and you should too.
It's all pretty consistent.
That looks good.
Now if I go back into the game
you suddenly have quite a tense at a level with these little bits of clutter and lots of hiding spaces.
But they also make it more difficult to navigate.
So I'm quite happy that that camera might be a bit mean.
But yeah that's looking pretty good.
So.
So in this video we've looked at how to make the level more believable.
We looked at setting up texture regions and we've looked at rotating and flipping tiles.
So excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.